# Fundamental Electrical Engineering

#### Electricity take the path of LEAST resistance

**Circuits**: A path where electricity flows through a variety of mediums via a power source, a route where electrons can flow along.

**Complete Circuit**: Unbroken path that a circuit follows from a positive (giving electrons) end to a negative end (receiving electrons) end. Closed Circuit.

**Current**: Flow of electrons past a single point in a circuit in a fixed time, measured in AMPS (Amperes)

* Electrons are negatively charged, so they flow from the negative terminal to positive terminal of a battery.
* Heat/Light Energy is generated.

**Resistance**: The resistance of to the flow of electrons. Resistance if proportional to how long/thick/temperature the wire is for electrons to move through.

* Occurs when electrons collide with atoms. Collisions generate heat, and with heat comes energy (providing light in a lightbulb).  
* A coil generates a magnetic field.
  * Passing through a magnetic field through a coil will induce a coil/voltage.
* **Transformers**: Induce voltage between coils without touching.

**Alternating Current (AC)**: The current that moves back-and-forth with the changing of the magnetic field, like with a generator.

* This is the type of electricity from wall sockets in homes.

**Direct Current (DC)**: The current that moves in one direction.

* Type of electricity from batteries.

**Resistors**: Protect components by limiting the flow of electricity to not overload a component, too many electrons flowing through it.

**Voltage**: Pushing potential force of electrons in a circuit. Potential difference in charge between two points in an electrical field.

* Think water pressure in a pipe. Without pressure  it cannot push a water wheel as there is no direction, with voltage it forces the water in a direction that provides movement for the water wheel or light in a light bulb.

**Volt**: A unit of energy for movement. (Volt = Joules/Coulomb = Work per flowing electron)

**Insulator**: Doesn't pass electrons, essentially too dense. This allows electrons to be redirected safely, without a insulator other conductor to redirect the flow by accident.

* Atoms that don't have free electrons, that cannot pass on electrons (glass, rubber).

**Conductor**: An object or type of material that allows the flow of charge in one or more directions.

* Atoms that can pass on electrons.

**Capacitor**: An object that stores electronic charge, a temporary battery in a way.

* They are used for power correction. In a perfect world, voltage would be constant; but that is not the case. Sometimes voltage has a "margin of error" that a capacitor catches to give the proper voltage without components being damanged by being overloaded.

**Short Circuit**: Electrons taking a path that isn't to the end of the Complete Circuit.

**How electricity moves:** Free electrons move in an enclosed space freely without direction, connecting to a battery with voltage it forces the free electrons to move to the positive (receiving) end of the battery. 

**Ohms Law**: Voltage (Potential energy of electrons) is equal to current taken by the electrons divided by the amount of resistance on the path from both terminals.

* Voltage (V) = Current * Resistance
  * If you double the voltage, you current the current is doubled. This is like having higher water pressure through pipes (electrons). 
* Current (I) = Voltage / Resistance
  * Current is inversely proportional to resistance, double the current you half the resistance.
* Resistance (R) (Opposition of flow of electrons) = Voltage / Current
  * Reduce current by reducing resistance, reduce current by increasing resistance.

**Transistors**: Small electronic components that are used to provide on/off feature for circuits (automated switch that doesn't require a human) AND to also amplify signals.

* Some transistors are attached to heat sinks to distribute the ongoing heat generated by the current, each transistor is limited to a voltage/current.
* Three pins in the following order (Emitter, Base, Collector)
  * 0.6-0.7 Volts to base pin to switch. The base pin usually gets a small voltage that is amplified through the Collector Pin.
  * **Current Gained**: Current Current (Current to the base pin) / Base Current (Current to the collection pin)



# Sources

* [Explaining an Electrical Circuit](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VnnpLaKsqGU)
* [How ELECTRICITY works - working principle](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mc979OhitAg&t=479s&ab_channel=TheEngineeringMindset)
* [Capacitors Explained - The basics how capacitors work working principle](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X4EUwTwZ110&ab_channel=TheEngineeringMindset)
* [Ohms Law Explained - The basics circuit theory](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HsLLq6Rm5tU&ab_channel=TheEngineeringMindset)